docs/index.md, before:

---
layout: default
title: smarc Documentation
description: smarchitectures
---

<div align="center">
<picture>
  <img alt="smarc" src="emil_arch.png" width="30%">
</picture>
</div>

**<center>smarchitectures</center>**

---
<center>  
Alleluia.  Sequentia.
</center>

# Intro

`smarc` is a where I prototype RISC-V cores + memory system + accelerators for future **sequencing SoCs** (to handle workloads on molecule chains like DNA, streaming sensors, path planners, etc.). It consists of two main parts.  `smile` checks what the codes does on the core and `smicro` checls how the system moves the data.

## Packages

- **smile** – core model and programs  
  - `Tile1`: a simple RV32 core with a clean `MemoryPort` interface  
  - Tiny test programs and support code for instruction decode/execute
  
- **smicro** – SoC harness and testbenches  
  - Instantiates cores, DRAM, memory controllers, testers  
  - Drives experiments via `./smicro -suite=... -topo=...`


## What can I do here?

- Run protocol and DRAM tests (`-suite=proto_*`, `-suite=hal_*`)
- Let the core run directly against DRAM (`-suite=proto_core`) and watch instruction traces
- Evolve the core and memory system together, while keeping the same high-level driver interface

## When to use `smile` vs `smicro`

**Use `smile` for…**

- Checking what a small RISC-V program actually does to Tile1’s registers and memory
- Stepping instruction-by-instruction with a debugger to debug decode/execute/trap behavior
- Trying out CUSTOM-0 instructions and accelerators and verifying their results

**Use `smicro` for…**

- Testing the MemCtrl ↔ DRAM protocol and timing with scripted traffic
- Running Tile1 inside a small SoC harness to check system-level integration
- Exploring how different memory latencies/topologies affect request/response timing

For more detail, see:

- [smile](./smile.md) – Tile1 core, instruction decode/execute, and how it talks to memory
- [smicro](./smicro.md) – SoC wiring, memory paths, test suites  
- [kernels](./kernels.md) – focused microkernel notes and run examples

Commit message:

Update docs: intro text and kernel examples
Rewrite the project intro to clarify smarc's focus on sequencing SoCs and example workloads (molecules, sensor streams, path planning), fix typos, and better describe the roles of `smile` and `smicro`. Adjust the kernels example: add the `smarc $` prompt prefixes to command lines, fix code block fencing and spacing, and generally tidy the command sequence to match expected usage.

docs/index.md, after:

---
layout: default
title: smarc Documentation
description: smarchitectures
---

<div align="center">
<picture>
  <img alt="smarc" src="emil_arch.png" width="30%">
</picture>
</div>

**<center>smarchitectures</center>**

---
<center>  
Alleluia.  Sequentia.
</center>

# Intro

`smarc` is where I prototype RISC-V cores + memory system + accelerators for future **sequencing SoCs**.  Sequence what?  I keep an open-mind, but worklaods of interest include molecules (sequence DNA), pictures (sequence senor streams), path planning (sequence movement).  The project consists of two main parts.  `smile` checks what sequencing code does on the silicon-vectored core and `smicro` checks how efficiently the architecture hardware transforms and moves the data that make up those sequences.

## Packages

- **smile** – core model and programs  
  - `Tile1`: a simple RV32 core with a clean `MemoryPort` interface  
  - Tiny test programs and support code for instruction decode/execute
  
- **smicro** – SoC harness and testbenches  
  - Instantiates cores, DRAM, memory controllers, testers  
  - Drives experiments via `./smicro -suite=... -topo=...`


## What can I do here?

- Run protocol and DRAM tests (`-suite=proto_*`, `-suite=hal_*`)
- Let the core run directly against DRAM (`-suite=proto_core`) and watch instruction traces
- Evolve the core and memory system together, while keeping the same high-level driver interface

## When to use `smile` vs `smicro`

**Use `smile` for…**

- Checking what a small RISC-V program actually does to Tile1’s registers and memory
- Stepping instruction-by-instruction with a debugger to debug decode/execute/trap behavior
- Trying out CUSTOM-0 instructions and accelerators and verifying their results

**Use `smicro` for…**

- Testing the MemCtrl ↔ DRAM protocol and timing with scripted traffic
- Running Tile1 inside a small SoC harness to check system-level integration
- Exploring how different memory latencies/topologies affect request/response timing

For more detail, see:

- [smile](./smile.md) – Tile1 core, instruction decode/execute, and how it talks to memory
- [smicro](./smicro.md) – SoC wiring, memory paths, test suites  
- [kernels](./kernels.md) – focused microkernel notes and run examples
